Projects and change go hand in hand,
but while some changes can help a project
others can send it spiraling off course.
So how can you minimize the risk that come
with change and maximize the rewards?
The answer comes down to implementing
and following a change management process.
Which ensures that all revisions are appropriately
defined, analyzed, approved, and resolved.
To follow that process, you'll need to be familiar
with the right documents, roles, and steps
required to implement change.
To start, there are two primary change management documents.
First, there's a change request form or CRF.
The CRF explains what the change is, why it's necessary,
and how it will impact the project.
The second document is a change log.
A change log keeps track of every change request
submitted trough a project's history.
It typically includes each change of submission date,
rejection or approval date, requester,
description, and current status.
Now that you're familiar with what those two documents are,
the next question is "Who needs to see them?"
To answer that, you'll need to look at everyone
who has a role in the change management process.
Normally, there are four primary roles in change management.
The first role is the change requester,
who can be any member of the project team.
This is the person who kicks off
the change management process.
Next, there's you, the project manager.
As a project manager, you'll review all requests,
submit them for approval, participate in implementation,
and record all information in the change log.
Third, there's a change control board or CCB.
This group is the final authority on approval.
For larger projects the CCB might
be referred to as the steering committee.
In smaller organizations the CCB can simply
be a group of dedicated team members.
Finally, you'll also need to include your team
alongside you, your team's responsible
for implementing all approved change requests.
Let's put all of that together.
Remembering those documents and roles, you can apply
change management to your project
by following a four step process.
So what four steps are included
in that change management process?
The first step involves identifying and submitting a CRF.
The change requester will perform this action
if they discover an unforeseen problem or opportunity.
Second, as the project manager,
you will review that change request.
During this second step, you'll determine
if more information is needed, whether or not the revision
is necessary for project success, and if the issue can
be resolved without adjusting the project plan.
Next it's time to approve the change request.
If you determine the change is necessary,
you'll forward it to the CCB with a recommendation.
The CCB will then consider the risks of both
implementing and not implementing the change
and they'll make a final approval decision.
Lastly, you'll need to close
and implement the change request.
Regardless of the final decision, close the request
by adding all relevant details to the change log.
Then, if the request was approved, you and your team
can move forward with implementation.
Implementation requires introducing the revision
to your project plan and performing ongoing quality control.
No project plan is ever perfect.
Conditions, circumstances, and people
will inevitably change and successful projects
will change along them.
So the next time you're facing something new,
remember to follow the change management process.
That way you can improve your chances of success
and better meet your project goals.